# Pet Store API Automation Framework

This is a comprehensive automation framework for testing the Pet Store API. It includes capabilities for adding, retrieving, updating, and deleting pet data, as well as reading test data from JSON and Excel files. The framework utilizes RestAssured for API calls, Log4j2 for logging, and TestNG for test execution and reporting.

## Table of Contents
- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Setup](#setup)
- [Running Tests](#running-tests)
- [Framework Structure](#framework-structure)
- [Test Data](#test-data)
- [Logging](#logging)
- [Listeners](#listeners)
- [Reporting](#reporting)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

## Prerequisites
- Java Development Kit (JDK) 8 or higher
- Maven
- TestNG
- Git

## Setup
1. Clone the repository:
    git clone https://github.com/deepikaL1313/petstoredemo.git
   
2. Navigate to the project directory:
   cd petstoredemo
   
3. Install the project dependencies:
   mvn clean install 
   
## Running Tests
1. To run test
  mvn test -DsuiteXmlFile=testng.xml

Alternatively, you can run the tests directly through your IDE (such as IntelliJ IDEA or Eclipse) by right-clicking the testng.xml file and selecting "Run".

Note : To view default TestNG reports , Edit the Run/Debug configurations > Select Output Directory as Project's taget folder > Select Listeners tab > Checkmark Use default reports , Reports can be accessed from target folder > index.html

## Framework Structure

petstore-api-automation-framework/
|-- src/
|   |-- main/
|   |   |-- java/
|   |       |-- com/
|   |           |-- petstore/
|   |               |-- api/
|   |               |   |-- constants/
|   |               |   |-- controller/
|   |               |   |-- requestDTO/
|   |               |   |-- utils/
|   |-- test/
|       |-- java/
|           |-- com/
|               |-- petstore/
|                   |-- backend/
|                       |-- tests/
|                       |   |-- base/
|                       |   |-- data/
|                       |   |-- suite/
|-- testng.xml
|-- README.md

## Key Components
Controller: Contains classes for interacting with the API endpoints.

Constants: Holds constant values used throughout the framework.

RequestDTO: Data Transfer Objects for requests.

Utils: Utility classes for  functionalities like JSON handling, REST call execution, Excel reading

BaseTest: Contains the base test class with setup methods.

DataProvider class : Effectively supplies test data to test methods by reading data from both JSON files and Excel sheets. For large and complex JSON requests, JSON files are ideal due to their structured nature and scalability. For smaller, more manageable JSON requests, Excel sheets are more convenient and user-friendly, providing an easier way to update and manage test data. This dual approach ensures flexibility and efficiency, allowing you to choose the most suitable data source based on the size and complexity of the test data

Suite: Contains the test classes grouped into different test suites.

## Test Data
Test data is stored in JSON and Excel files located in the resources directory. The JSONUtils and ExcelUtility classes are used to read data from these files and provide it to test methods via data providers.

## Logging
This framework uses Log4j2 for logging. Log4j2 is a powerful, flexible, and reliable logging framework that provides various features to log information at different levels such as INFO, DEBUG, WARN, ERROR, etc.

## Configuration
The Log4j2 configuration file (log4j2.xml) is located in the resources directory. This file defines the log format, log levels, and log appenders (e.g., console, file).

## Listeners
The framework includes a custom listener (FailedTestRetryListener) for retrying failed tests. This listener is configured in the testng.xml file.

## Reporting
Test reports are generated by TestNG and can be found in the target/surefire-reports directory after the tests are executed.

## Contributing
Contributions are welcome! Please create a fork of the repository, make your changes, and submit a pull request.

## License
This project is licensed under the GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE. See the LICENSE file for details.


